\documentclass[]{article}

\usepackage[margin=1in, paperwidth=8.5in, paperheight=11in]{geometry}
\usepackage{titlesec}
\usepackage[normalem]{ulem}
\usepackage{amssymb} 
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{listings}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{adjustbox}
\usepackage{tikz}
\usepackage{adjustbox}
\usepackage{fp}
\usepackage{listings}

\setlength{\parskip}{5pt}

\begin{document}

\title{Hiding in Plain Sight: \\ 
\Large A packet fragmentation-based IDS evasion attack \\
\large CS585 Lab 2}
\author{Stephen Harding, Amanda Minnich, Karl Stolleis}

\maketitle
\newpage
\section{Introduction}

Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) are a common tool used to detect undesirable 
network traffic. However, there are many known attacks that allow a user to 
evade an IDS. One such attack is called a packet fragmentation attack. If the 
host being protected and the IDS use different operating systems, a user can 
exploit undefined operating system specific behavior to evade detection. 
Different operating systems are able to communicate with each other because 
they all comply with the RFCs. Unfortunately, the RFCs do not specify the 
appropriate handling of certain edge cases. One of these edge cases is the 
handling of specific sorts of malformed packets. Since OS vendors decide for 
themselves what to do, it is possible to craft packets that are treated 
differently by different operating systems and thereby slip by the IDS.

Consider fragmented packets: a large packet may be sent through a router that 
has a smaller MTU than the previous hop. If the packet is larger than the MTU 
size, the packet is fragmented into smaller packets that can then flow through 
the router. These new packets will all have the `\texttt{More Fragments}' flag 
set in the IP header as well as the fragment offset (except, of course, for 
the last packet). No ordinary circumstances would cause these fragments to 
`overlap' (i.e. the offset of one is less than the offset+length of another), 
and so the RFCs do not address how to reassemble fragmented packets that 
overlap in this way. Since the RFCs are silent, different operating systems 
have defined various policies for reassembly.

\section{Methods}

In our experimental setup, we have three virtual machines networked together. 
The topology is quite simple: there are two endpoints, one running Linux 
(Ubuntu Server 12.04.2) and the other FreeBSD 9. In between the 
endpoints is a router (also running Ubuntu Server 12.04.2). This 
router provides the only route of communication between the two endpoints.

We demonstrate that a vulnerability exists when an IDS (running on the router) 
is protecting a host running a different operating system (the FreeBSD 
endpoint). We do this by installing and running 
\texttt{Snort}\footnote{http://www.snort.org/} on the router with a rule that 
inspects packets passing through the router and logs a message indicating that 
illicit content was detected. We chose the text `Falun Gong' to search for in 
the rule. To demonstrate the vulnerability, we carefully craft packets with 
\texttt{Scapy}\footnote{http://www.secdev.org/projects/scapy/} that take 
advantage of the reassembly policies of Linux and FreeBSD, so that when 
\texttt{Snort} inspects the packets it sees only innocuous text in the packet 
payload. After the router forwards on the fragmented packets, the FreeBSD 
endpoint reassembles the fragmented packets and sees the illicit message. The 
reader is invited to view all of the source files which we use to demonstrate 
this vulnerability.\footnote{https://github.com/stharding/netslab2}

The mechanics of this demonstration are fairly simple. Both Linux and FreeBSD 
favor packets with smaller offsets. However, if two packets have the same 
offset, then the Linux reassembly policy will favor packets that are received 
latest in time, while FreeBSD will favor packets that are received earliest. 
This key difference allows us to craft packet fragments such that the illicit 
and innocuous message have the same offset and length, but the illicit message 
is in a packet that is sent first. This guarantees that Linux will discard the 
packet with the illicit message and \texttt{Snort} will be none the wiser. 
FreeBSD, on the other hand, will discard the dummy message and receive the 
illicit message without the snooping authorities seeing anything untoward.

\section{Results}

After completing this attack, we created a visualization to illustrate the 
procedure described above. We hope that this visual representation of network 
traffic will help to illustrate exactly how we evaded the IDS.

\end{document}
